President Francois Hollande of France has said that the "excesses" of Donald J. Trump made people "want to retch," adding a scathing international voice to the chorus of those criticizing the Republican presidential nominee.

Speaking on Tuesday to the French Presidential Press Association in Paris, Mr. Hollande noted the worldwide importance of the American campaign, calling it a "global election," and said a victory for Mr. Trump could herald a shift to conservative candidates in other countries.

Mr. Hollande, whose comments were later reported by Agence France-Presse and Reuters, expressed particular dismay at the attacks on "a soldier, the memory of a soldier," referring to Mr. Trump's continued criticism of the parents of Capt. Humayun Khan, a Muslim and an American soldier who was killed in 2004 in Iraq.

The comments from Mr. Trump have prompted widespread condemnation in the United States and have led several prominent Republicans to distance themselves from the party's nominee.

On Tuesday, President Obama urged Republican leaders to withdraw their support for Mr. Trump's candidacy, calling him "unfit to serve" as the next president.

Mr. Hollande said "the excesses end up making you feel like you want to retch," and he called Mr. Trump's comments on the Khan family "hurtful and humiliating."

It was not the first time that Mr. Hollande has lashed out against the Republican candidate. After the killing of a priest in Normandy last week, he reacted angrily to Mr. Trump's assessment that "France is no longer France."

"France will always be France," Mr. Hollande retorted. "It never gives up, because it still bears ideals, values, principles that are recognized worldwide, and it's when you lower your standards that you are no longer what you are. That's something that may happen to others, on the other side of the Atlantic."

On Tuesday, Mr. Hollande said, "If the Americans choose Trump, it will have consequences because the American election is a global election."

Mr. Hollande is expected to run in the French presidential election next year, although he has not officially announced his candidacy, despite dismal approval ratings as he struggles to fulfill his promises to significantly lower unemployment and to keep the country safe even as it has emerged as a target for terrorists.

The prospect of Mr. Trump winning the election or significantly swaying the global political debate rightward is especially worrying for Mr. Hollande, who is facing strong challenges from the French center-right Republican party, led by former President Nicolas Sarkozy, and from the far-right National Front, led by Marine Le Pen.

Asked about the influence of a Trump victory on the French election, Mr. Hollande said that the response could go either way, by steering the presidential contest to the right, or, on the contrary, by leading to a "correction."

"The American campaign signals themes that are then found in the French campaign," Mr. Hollande said.